[DX-1008] Updated Internal Endpoint middleware (#4046)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/internal-endpoint-middleware.md

---
title: Internal Endpoint middleware
date: 2024-01-26
description: "Detail of the Internal Endpoint middleware"
tags: ["internal endpoint", "internal", "middleware", "per-endpoint"]
---

> The Internal Endpoint middleware instructs Tyk Gateway not to process external requests to the endpoint (which is a combination of HTTP method and path). Internal requests from other APIs will be processed.

Author: ```suggestion
The Internal Endpoint middleware instructs Tyk Gateway to ignore external requests to the endpoint (which is a combination of HTTP method and path). Internal requests from other APIs will be processed.
```

| f1c63fa5177de2719  | `/api1`    | `endpoint1_ext` | `endpoint1_int`     |
| 2e90b33a879945918  | `/api2`    | `endpoint2_ext` | `endpoint2_int`     |

A direct call to `/api1/endpoint1_int` will be rejected with `HTTP 403 Forbidden` as this is an internal endpoint.

This endpoint could, however, be called from within either endpoint in `/api2` as either:
 - `tyk://api1/endpoint1_int`
 - `tyk://f1c63fa5177de2719/endpoint1_int`

Or from within `/api1/endpoint1_ext` as:
 - `tyk://api1/endpoint1_int`
 - `tyk://f1c63fa5177de2719/endpoint1_int`
 - `tyk://self/endpoint1_int`

<hr>

If you're using Tyk OAS APIs, then you can find details and examples of how to configure the Internal Endpoint middleware [here]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/internal-endpoint-tyk-oas" >}}).

If you're using Tyk Classic APIs, then you can find details and examples of how to configure the Internal Endpoint middleware [here]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/internal-endpoint-tyk-classic" >}}).

<!-- proposed "summary box" to be shown graphically on each middleware page
 ## Internal Endpoint middleware summary

>   - The Internal Endpoint middleware is an optional stage in Tyk's API Request processing chain, sitting between the [TBC]() and [TBC]() middleware.

Author: This is intended to be a common visual "summary box" for all middleware - so will be completed at a later date. This is just a placeholder.
